Pop Downard was a machine shop and Pop Fleming was a wood shop.
Those were afternoon labs and we stayed awake in those, of course, but.
Early on when you needed advice.
Had your friend, Screamin' Al Nelson for history.
Oh, describe him.
Screamin' Al Nelson was a.
A good history professor, but he had a lot of little quirks about him.
His podium was on a six inch platform, wood platform.
And so we'd put his chair on the platform and he'd come in and kick it off and kick it clear across the room to the windows.
The windows were high so we didn't break any of the windows.
He'd kick it clear across the room.
We knew he'd do it, so we put it up there every day just to watch him kick it across, and then, so he taught the class, and most of his quizzes were essay, and the theory was that he'd take them to the fourth floor of the Rotunda, an academic building, and drop them, and the ones that hit first made A's, and the ones that floated made F's, because all he wanted was content.
He never read them to know what,
whether you answered a question or not, it was just a content thing with him.
But he was, it was pretty funny.
And then... Why was he nicknamed Screamin' Owl?
Well, because he'd just scream half the time.
You could ask him a question and he'd just yell at you.
You know, kick the chair and then just yell at you.
You know, so it was just a noisy room.
And then we had Sigar Dan, the grade point man in rural sociology.
He was always chewing on a little stub of a cigar.
It was about two inches long, I guess, and he'd put it on the end of the chalkboard when he came in and get up and teach.
And if you were there every day, you made an A. So it was the grade point man.
Cigar Dan, the grade point man.
Dan Russell, I believe his name was.
But he was a...
He was okay, passed us all anyway, so.
Back to Screamin' Allen Nelson.
What subjects or topics do you remember that he got most excited about?
I think it was Roosevelt.
It seemed like to me he was bad against Roosevelt.
He didn't care too much for him.
And we could mention his name.
He spent the whole class hour talking about him.
He wasn't in two favor.
Who was the other one?
Judge Stewart in business law.
Describe him.
Judge Stewart was a great professor.
He was a practical professor because he would give you things and when he was teaching us contract law, he would say, now if you want to really remember this, here's what you think about.
He who knowingly signeth hath no bitches.
So I remembered that all these years, so it's easy to things, and he had a few other things like that, antidotes that he taught.
But Judge Stewart would, in due respect to him, every now and then he would have a drink during the evening before class and have to wear rose-cluttered glasses to...
class and then on occasion his wife would come in and teach the class because he wasn't able to make it that day and we got to walk his final.
I took him one summer and in summer school the classes were from 7 to 1 or about 7 to 12 I guess and
They had two, well they went all, excuse me, they started at 7 and went to 5, the day did for the staff.
So there was one secretary come in at 7 and the other one would come in at 9.
One get off at 3, one get off at 5.
So we were taking our final at 7 and that secretary didn't come in so he couldn't get the final out of the safe.
So he told us we could just take what we,
what we had in the class and walked.
So anyway, a few things like that happened on occasion.
But anyway, he was a... During those early years, first year or two, to whom did you turn for advice about courses or anything else?
Well, let's see.
Like, I mean by changing my major, or what courses should I take next, or should I drop this one and add that one?
The only one that really comes to mind was Dean McGuire.
He was Associate Dean in College of Engineering.
He was a very nice man and helped me out.
If anybody helped me, he did.
Was that Mickey McGuire?
Uh-huh.
And so I think he's the one that I primarily went to.
when I had anything like that, and he helped me out quite a bit, so.
You came up to begin school at the first of September or just before?
I came in in January.
I was what they called a frog.
Oh, you came in January?
Yeah.
Where had you gone to school before?
Well, I was just a semester late getting out of high school.
You know, I got out of high school in December and then came up here in January, so.
Oh, okay.
All right, now then track really began then.
Yeah, we were right out on the track at that time, and then the next September I was running with everybody.
And then the next February I went over to the Corps, so I spent a year there in the track in Hart Hall and then spent the rest of the time.
So when your dad brought you up here that first time,
Yes, it was in the snow.
It was in the snow.
It was the snow of 49.
Yeah.
And, okay, then describe the real track workouts and your internal landing.
Well, like I say, Ray Putnam was the quarterback, up coach, and when we'd get out there at those days, we would have sprint training, and then we'd run the 300, and then he'd race us against each other on the 300, and then once or twice a week we'd race on the quarter mile against each other.
And what was your event?
The quarter mile.
And I did pretty good in high school.
I was running from a 49 to a 51 according to how good it was.
And when I came up here, a guy named James Baker from Highland Park, I believe he was in Dallas, passed me like I was tied to a stump.
Nice, great guy, you know, but classmate.
But they just were so much faster.
Builderback and Holbrook and all that class of seniors, and those guys were running 47s, 48s.
But it was great experience.
I met some very nice people that I wouldn't normally meet.
But anyway, it was good, and I learned right away that I wasn't fast enough to do that, so.
Okay.
Colonel Andy.
Colonel Andy, probably.
without question, one of the nicest, politest men in the world.
His son, Rusty, was in the class of 50 and was running a half mile.
And his other son was a classmate of mine, was running a quarter mile, I think.
Gosh, don't tell me, I forgot his name.
I can't think of his first name right now.
Anyway, he left after our freshman year and went to Annapolis.
So I didn't get to know him, but Rusty hung around and graduated, so.
Well, he goes to church with us, yeah.
But he was just and his little wife, Ms.
Anderson, was born with a smile.
You never saw her without a smile.
Just that type of lady, just.
What was he like physically?
What size?
He was about 5'7".
About 150 pounds, 160 pounds, 50 I guess, 40, somewhere in there.
He was just well built but small, very small man.
Now he got that title, colonel.
Because he was a retired colonel.
Had been what's coming out of the Corps.
Uh-huh.
And his father was a colonel and his father's father was a colonel or general or admiral or something.
And so they're from a long line.
Military.
Were you all aware of any link between him and the 12th man?
No.
Turning it back on, about Colonel Andy, describe his coaching techniques and methodology.
Well, to tell you the truth, I never worked under him.
Ray Putnam was the distance coach, which I was always under, not under Colonel Andy.
He had the hurdlers and the sprint people and those folks, and I never got to train under him.
He was, Paul did, of course.
Now, did folks like the Andersons live on campus still in 48?
Describe that residential area.
Well, it's kind of hard to describe.
I don't really remember it.
I didn't get over there.
The houses were just being moved off about that time, but I'm not sure.
I think he still lived on the campus then.
He may have been at the South Gate by then, Colonel Andy.
I'm not sure about that, so I never went to his home.
A lot of them did, but I never did for some reason, so.
All right, that first spring then, you're taking these basic courses.
Then did you go home for the summer or take summer school?
No, I went home for the summer.
What did you do that summer?
I'm not sure.
I think I worked as an electrician's helper or something.
Did you feel good about your first semester?
Oh, yeah.
Just proud to be here and proud to be part of it.
Folks were glad, you know, as parents would be.
Had you already made some friendships which now you realize were lifelong?
Oh, yeah.
Oh, yes.
Who were some of the dearest?
Well, Paul Lemming is one of them.
You know, my classmates, most of them.
David Britt I met when I went over to the Corps.
Been lifelong, or I say lifelong, from school day.
But who else?
Well, like I say, all your classmates that you grew up with.
Bill Bless was a low hurdler.
He was from Thomas Jefferson in San Antonio.
He and Paul were the two.
Lemming were the two probably best hurdlers in the state that year when they both came up here.
Lows and highs.
Who else?
Well, I just, there's, I can't think of any names right now.
All right, you come back then that first fall, in the fall of 49, is that right?
Yes, right, fall of 49, right.
We were sophomores then.
All right.
But were you, did you, you'd been, that's your second semester?
Yes.
Fall of 49?
Uh-huh.
Had you taken some courses somewhere else?
No.
All right, but in the Corps were you officially a sophomore?
Yes.
Okay.
When you enter up here, like the September group was in a class four years from 48 was 52.
Well, if you come in in September,
then that's your class because it's during that year.
So put me in the class of 52 with them.
Describe what it was like to be a sophomore in the Corps.
How was it different from being a freshman?
It was a lot different because over in the Corps, we were the low man on a totem pole in the Corps.
There were seniors, juniors, and sophomores because the class of 53 was still out on the annex.
And so they shaped us up a little bit because the sophomores,
who were then juniors, finally found somebody they could haze, or I shouldn't put that word in there, that they could speak to harshly, I guess.
And they did have an occasion to get a board on occasion and give us a couple of three licks.
What would be the causes of that?
Of what?
For what reason would they pull the board out?
What they called it in those days was good bull.
Because they had a good day in class, because they failed the test, because they passed the test, because they were out drunk the night before and they decided they'd just do it for good bull.
And this usually occurred where and when?
It usually occurred, in our outfit, it usually occurred at noon from the time we got back from class till the time we would fall in to March to Chao at noon.
In where?
In the hallway?
No, in the junior's room.
And did you bend over?
No, you didn't bend over.
You grabbed pooch and stood up against the bedpost.
With grabbing pooch is what you do when you reach down and pull your pants tight against your butt.
And you had your pants on.
Oh, yeah.
And what was the limit on the number of licks that anybody ever got?
It was three.
Three.
Yeah, that was the limit.
And the paddle was usually made was a what?
Well, the one that they used on us most of the time during that year was a shaving down baseball bat.
And...
We had a junior in there that was a freshman All-American baseball player that understood how to use a baseball bat.
And so it was very interesting.
We had some juniors in there that the deal was if they didn't hit you very hard, you'd take some crackers and put it in your back pocket.
And like they couldn't bust crackers, you know, they weren't strong enough to do.
They didn't like that too much.
But anyway, it was fun.
But who's going to read all of this?
Anybody.
Okay, you can cut this out.
Do you know what a fart off is?
No.
That's the only way I can explain this.
No, I haven't heard of that one.
A fart off is when you really insult somebody.
I mean, when you really put them down.
They call that a fart off, you know.
Well, I made the major classic to a senior who was my CO's roommate.
And it was like just a week after I got over there, I hadn't even seen him because he was either sleeping or in class.
So I hadn't even seen him.
So when we were in the John in the dorm, I whipped out to meet him in the head.
Bad news.
Oh, you're not supposed to do that in the job.
No, no.
Well, you just got through and then you... Oh, I see.
Not good.
Not a good practice.
And I've never done that before and even to this day.
If somebody at the stadium or somewhere, Harry, how you doing?
I'd flinch, you know.
I will do it, but I don't want to.
But I pulled the major.
coup of the year right there.
And I never did it again.
But anyway, that is, I mean, a major faux pas in that core area.
All right.
Well, to anybody if you just think about it, you know.
Yeah.
You all had all the, I mean, yeah, that fall of 49, you sophomores had a similar routine to what freshmen in other years on the campus would have had.
Exactly.
So we had to do everything the freshmen did, like at Christmas, we sang carols on each corner of the dorm.
Our class, there were four, there were three outfits in there.
A, B, and C infantry.
So we'd pick a corner and then we'd move around and sing carol to the upperclassmen at Christmas.
And of course we had to know by Thanksgiving
We had to have met and know the names of everybody in the dorm, where they were from, and what they were taking from September to Thanksgiving.
And you do that by looking at their card at night.
You'd meet them and then you'd go by and look at their cards or something.
And it was a senior privilege to lock your door.
So that's when all the ground outs came at night, you know.
You've had people tell you about that and the flood in the dorms and all that, I'm sure.
But in my opinion, in those days, we had the bull ring that marched on Saturday from 1 to 5, get demerits, and you would, according to how many demerits, how many hours you had to walk, full dress uniform with a rifle, walk in a square out on the back drill field out there behind a cord arm,
55 minutes and rest five.
But most, if you had any demerits, it was usually for what?
Or uniforms, bed not made, stuff like that.
But just in my humble opinion,
Although we wanted to go home every day.
You'll hear that a lot too, you know.
We didn't go home because we'd rather face the sophomores than our parents, than our daddy telling them we quit, you know.
Those days we respected our parents and we wasn't going to, but so we,
I forgot my train of thought there.
You're talking about the drills and the routine and so forth.
Let's jump to Colonel Boatner.
Make believe that I never heard of him.
Describe him physically and describe him as a CO.
Colonel Boatner.
Hayden L. Boatner was a medium-sized man with a staunch face.
and a hard case.
He was a general in the Army and slapped a guy, a service man, sort of like Patton, or did something like that like Patton.
And so they busted him to Colonel
and sent him to A&M as the Commandant of the Corps.
I didn't know that.
Yes.
And I'll finish that part of the story.
And during the Korean War,
They called him and wanted to know, they told him if he wanted to go to Korea because they had that sit-down strike in Incheon or something, somewhere over there, and they couldn't get it corrected.
So they called him and told him they'd give him a star back if he would go over there and correct it.
So they asked him if he'd like to go over, and he said, I'll go anywhere where there's not a mother's club, is the story that I heard.
But he was really something.
Was he strong-willed with?
Very strong-willed.
He hated the Air Force because he was an Army man.
A friend of mine, two of them in the class of 50, got in trouble one day and went in.
He called them into his office and while he was chewing them out, he said something about the Air Force and hit his desk and broke the glass on his desk.
He was so adamant about the Air Force.
He, someone was walking down military walk, a couple of cadets, at 5 o'clock when he came out and had his jeep and he was headed home.
And he got about a block away from him and stopped the jeep and backed up the whole block and stopped him.
They didn't salute him, so he made them salute him.
But that's the kind of guy.
And then on the other hand, Bill Bless told me,
that he saw him in a, he was getting out of an airplane in some country.
It might have been, anyway, he was, Bill Bless was a pilot, and he was landing in an Air Force base where Colonel Boatner was changing commands or moving from one place to another, and he called him by his name.
So he had a knack for remembering all of us that were here, you know, that had anything to do with it.
Now he was not an Aggie by background, was he?
No, no.
I'm not sure where he went.
I was going to say the academy, but I'm not sure about that.
Did you all ever see, while you were students, did you ever see him soften up ever?
No.
He was always strong?
Always strong.
Mad because he was here and mad because he was busted and mad because he was in the Mother's Club.
Did y'all have any nicknames for him?
I've never heard one for him.
I haven't either.
Because it was all respect for him.
It was Colonel Boatner.
That's all it was.
But I can't remember.
I never heard anybody say anything outside of that.
Now, you were in the new Corps area.
Yes.
How was it different from Hart Hall?
Going to Cebisa and that was going to Duncan.
Yeah.
Well, going to Duncan, of course.
We marched into Duncan and then we sat with our outfit and then it was sophomores, juniors, and seniors got to food.
Seniors, juniors, and sophomores.
And there were no short stopping anyone, you know, and hard haul.
We just passed it around.
Everybody took it.
But it got to be all military when we got to Duncan, so it was a different setup, which we learned rapidly, because we had one junior that every time one of us sophomores would take something out of a dish, he'd say, that's okay, I didn't want it anyway.
And then you couldn't remember whether he had it or whether he didn't have it.
So anyway, it was fun.
In the dining hall, how soon did you and your buddies learn all of the lingo, the nicknames for the food?
It was pretty quick.
Well, we had all the lingo we learned over here.
I mean, they said all the lingo and everything.
But so we learned all that pretty quick.
Did you ever get in trouble at home when you forgot to use some of that at the table with your parents?
No, because I didn't forget.
No, I didn't do that.
Because I've heard a few were.
Yeah.
I told my daddy that when we were together on occasion, but I didn't say it around my mama.
Did you ever, in those early semesters, did you ever think about leaving A&M?
Every day.
Everybody thinks about it every day when they're sophomores or after you're when, you know, it just, well, you just have to stop and meet everybody.
You know, you think you can't do it, but if you see somebody in your outfit and he's walking with three other people, you have to stop and go run and meet them as long as you're an old man like that.
What kept you from leaving then?
I told you.
I wasn't going to go home and tell my daddy I was quit.
You know, you just had respect for your parents and they didn't believe in you quitting, you know.
And I say everybody wanted to quit every day.
You know, it was just kind of a story.
Did your outfit have a nickname?
No.
In those days, they didn't really have that many nicknames.
You were in the quartermaster, or you were in infantry, A, B, C, or D, infantry, and that's the military science you took.
I don't know how they have it now.
You take infantry, but you're in some dog outfit or something.
I don't understand all that over there now.
It's gotten past me.
I grew too old.
That fall, describe for the first time your experiences with the routine of football weekends.
What happened during the weekend and when and where and what did you all do?
Well, you have to relate this to the fact that we didn't have any money, any cars, and every now and then
If we did have a date, which I don't think I ever had one up here until maybe the senior ball or the... But anyway, some of the guys had dates up here and a lot of funny stories about blind dates and all and how after the game they'd walk around the big pillows at Kyle Field one way and the girl would walk around the other and never they met again.
So, you know, that sort of thing.
But anyway, we just, we marched into the football games and marched into the stands.
It wasn't marching in like they do today and going back to the dorm and doing what you want to.
And we also fought, we would practice on Thursday or Friday, farming the tea.
on the field because the entire corps came out of the stands in those days and formed the T as opposed to the band doing it today.
But we marched in, we had of course an athletic card, but we marched in, marched right around and tracked our seats and that's the way it was, you know.
And of course sophomores with, or juniors with cigars yelling at you, blowing smoke in your face and all that kind of stuff.
So it was all fun.
Did they bring the freshmen in from the NX?
They marched in with us.
Did that make you sophomores feel temporarily superior?
It did, right.
And so we blew smoke in their face too, you know, it was one of those deals.
So it was a lot of fun.
Now the, that fall, the football team, let's see, was that, was Coach Norton gone?
Yes.
Steitler?
Steitler was here, I think.
Who were the, were there any football heroes?
Just Bob Smith that I can think of.
Oh, yes.
Robert Smith from Lamar High School in Houston.
Yes.
And he was pretty good.
Do you remember any football game stories, anecdotes you can record?
No.
Just the SMU game, of course.
He ran wild in that game, one of those years.
But I don't really remember too many of those.
They say, oh, that was Doak Walker.
And Kyle wrote.
Well, they went to SMU.
I'm talking about we beat them one year.
Smith ran 297 yards that day or something, a godly amount of yards.
I don't really remember any of those.
We, the bonfire, we had to get out and work on the bonfire like everybody else.
So that would have been your, 49, been your first year.
Do you remember where the cut area was?
No, I didn't have to go to the cut area.
I was on the stack over here and then.
It was south of Duncan or was it on the drill field?
Yeah, that year it was south of Duncan because we were,
No, it wasn't either.
I think it was on a drill field.
Okay.
Because we were... How long did... We had to guard it all night long.
We thought we had to guard it.
But at that time, it was just a teepee type thing, so there wasn't any logs to move or just put the logs up.
About how long did y'all work on it?
Not very long.
Two weeks?
Two weeks maybe.
Three weeks maybe at the most.
As far as you knew, were there any efforts to sabotage it?
Yeah, that was the year or the year after that we had supposedly the airplane flown by a Texas University student that came over and dropped firebombs or whatever he dropped on there and it crashed out.